To Whom It May Concern:
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
Symbolic Systems Program
It is my pleasure to write in support of Christina Jones’s application to the coterm program in CS. Christina attended my SymSys 145 (“Cognition in Interaction Design”) course in the winter quarter of 2012-2013. Since that time I have interated with her a number of times about her interests and plans, and I have also given her feedback on a number of UI-related design projects that she has been involved with. I have also reviewed her transcript. Through these interactions I can honestly say that I know a bit more about Christina than I would through her just having attended my class.
In SymSys 145 we apply cognitive methods to understand human interaction with complex systems, ranging from aircraft to smart phones. Students conduct weekly field observations of such interactions, employing a wide range of observational and experimental methodologies, with an emphasis on the learning aspects of these settings. Christina became interested in how people use things that were intended for one set of functions, in new functional settings, for example, how people might use Twitter to keep todo lists. This sounds much simpler than it is, and she obtained some very interesting and complex data from real people engaged in activities of this sort. She was then faced with extracting and analyzing an interpretable subset of this data. She did a terrific job in all of this work. Indeed, encouraged her to try to publish this work in a conference, but to date she has been too busy with other projects -- understandable for a busy Stanford undergrad.
Christina is extremely interested in the broad application of computation in many areas, and is hungry for exposure to many methodologies. She would often show up before class, or stay after, to discuss a wide range of interesting implications of course topics in areas ranging from education to the Asian economy -- not that I know much about most of these, but thinking aloud together with Christina was great fun. She generates ideas rapidly, but also mulls things over in great detail, making connections between her studies and her experience and interests. In over a decade teaching this course I can’t think of another student with whom I have had such interesting out-of-class conversations, and I would put her in the top 5% of my students.
Christina has a strong undergraduate background in science, computing, and cognitive science, as well as interesting breadth in Japanese and dance, but she is a bit tentative, not wanting to put things “on paper” until she has figured them out completely. I’ve been encouraging her to be more open about her interests and experience because I think she has such interesting things to contribute. For example, she and a friend have produced a series of video interviews of academics and others who might be able to offer career guidance to undergrads. I participated in one of these interviews and her questions were very thoughtful. For example, she encouraged me to think about my failures in addition to my successes. This is something that one wouldn’t normally think to ask a professor, but may in fact be a more important question than that of successes, and certainly got me to thinking anew about my own decisions. Christina has a bunch of these sorts of projects sitting in her informal portfolio. Another that I had an opportunity to look at quite recently is a phone app that searches for recipes (the prototype was for mixing drinks) based upon what the user has at hand, i.e., what objects are present in the context. Rather than simply thinking of this as a recipe app, Christina thinks of it in terms of the “web-of-things”, which, as it becomes more and more pervasive, these sorts of context aware applications will become similarly more important.
Christina is a deep thinker and an excellent observer and analyst with broad interests. She has excelled in my class, and in all her work, and all of our interactions have been interesting. I can strongly recommend her for a CS coterm. I have no doubt that she will make important contributions to whatever she pursues.
Jeff Shrager
Consulting Professor
Symbolic Systems Program
Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305 jshrager@stanford.edu